README.md, before:

# Emacs Configuration

## Installation

### Emacs
Because this configuration uses mu4e, it's best to install from [source](http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/emacs/), unpacking everything using ```tar -xzvf emacs-26.3.tar.gz```. 

Emacs has a lot of dependencies: ```sudo apt install libgtk2.0-dev libpng-dev libgif-dev libotf-dev libxml2-dev libxpm-dev libjpeg-dev libtiff-dev libgnutls28-dev libncurses5-dev```. Before compiling, be sure to use ```./configure``` from within the Emacs directory; it will provide information on missing dependencies.

### Emacs Development
Create repo in ```~/.emacs.d/```
On first install, uncomment the line ```(package-initialize)``` in the ```init.el``` file. This line can be commented out again once Emacs successfully runs.

For Rust development, download latest rust-analyzer release and place in ```~/.cargo/bin```. Add executable permissions. LISP won't necessarily provide any input until you build a project.

For Python development, install python language server: ```pip3 install 'python-language-server[all]'```

### Emacs Mail Client
If you don't want this functionality, comment the line ```(require 'init-mail)``` in ```init.el```. If you do want it, there are a few things to install to make Emacs work as a mail client. The first task is to Install mu4e, isync and gpg2 via apt: ```sudo apt install mu4e isync gpg2```.

Encrypt password files via gpg2: ```gpg2 -c .authinfo``` 

Remove original files and place the encrypted ones in folders with names to match the references in ```mu4e/.mbsyncrc```.

With everything installed we need to perform an initial sync using ```mbsync```. Before that, a mail directory must be create: ```mkdir ~/Mail``` 

Now, mail can be synced using the config file. Since it's in an unconventional directory, it must be specified explicitly: ```mbsync -c "~/.emacs.d/mu4e/.mbsyncrc" -a``` 

The last step is to index the messages with mu: ```mu index --maildir="~/Mail"```.

## Run Emacs Daemon
To start an Emacs server (i.e. run Emacs as a daemon), execute ```systemctl --user enable emacs```.

To run an Emacs client, either run ```emacsclient -create-frame --alternate-editor=""```, or create a Desktop entry in ```.local/share/applications```:

```
[Desktop Entry]
Name = Emacs Client
GenericName=Text Editor
Comment=Emacs Editor
MimeType=text/english;text/plain
Exec=emacsclient -create-frame --alternate-editor=""
Icon=emacs
Type=Application
Terminal=false
Categories=Development;TextEditor;Utility;
StartupWMClass=Emacs
```

Commit message:

Updated documentation for setting up emacs client/server

README.md, after:

# Emacs Configuration

## Installation

### Emacs
Because this configuration uses mu4e, it's best to install from [source](http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/emacs/), unpacking everything using ```tar -xzvf emacs-26.3.tar.gz```. 

Emacs has a lot of dependencies: ```sudo apt install libgtk2.0-dev libpng-dev libgif-dev libotf-dev libxml2-dev libxpm-dev libjpeg-dev libtiff-dev libgnutls28-dev libncurses5-dev```. Before compiling, be sure to use ```./configure``` from within the Emacs directory; it will provide information on missing dependencies.

### Emacs Development
Create repo in ```~/.emacs.d/```
On first install, uncomment the line ```(package-initialize)``` in the ```init.el``` file. This line can be commented out again once Emacs successfully runs.

For Rust development, download latest rust-analyzer release and place in ```~/.cargo/bin```. Add executable permissions. LISP won't necessarily provide any input until you build a project.

For Python development, install python language server: ```pip3 install 'python-language-server[all]'```

### Emacs Mail Client
If you don't want this functionality, comment the line ```(require 'init-mail)``` in ```init.el```. If you do want it, there are a few things to install to make Emacs work as a mail client. The first task is to Install mu4e, isync, html2text and gpg2 via apt: ```sudo apt install mu4e isync html2text gpg2```.

Encrypt password files via gpg2: ```gpg2 -c .authinfo``` 

Remove original files and place the encrypted ones in folders with names to match the references in ```mu4e/.mbsyncrc```.

With everything installed we need to perform an initial sync using ```mbsync```. Before that, a mail directory must be create: ```mkdir ~/Mail``` 

Now, mail can be synced using the config file. Since it's in an unconventional directory, it must be specified explicitly: ```mbsync -c "~/.emacs.d/mu4e/.mbsyncrc" -a``` 

The last step is to index the messages with mu: ```mu index --maildir="~/Mail"```.

## Run Emacs Daemon
When installing from source, it appears that the ```emacs.service``` file does not get created. If it does, it doesn't get put where it needs to, so starting an Emacs server (i.e. running Emacs as a daemon) by executing ```systemctl --user enable emacs``` does not work. I created my own systemd entry in ```~/.config/systemd/user/emacs.service``` as described [here](https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/EmacsAsDaemon):
```
[Unit]
Description=Emacs texteditor
Documentation=info:emacs man:emacs(1) https://gnu.org/software/emacs/

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/emacs --daemon
ExecStop=/usr/local/bin/emacsclient --eval "(kill-emacs)"
Environment=SSH_AUTH_SOCK=%t/keyring/ssh
Restart=on-failure

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

To run an Emacs client, either run ```emacsclient -create-frame --alternate-editor=""```, or create a Desktop entry in ```.local/share/applications\emacsclient.desktop```:

```
[Desktop Entry]
Name = Emacs Client
GenericName=Text Editor
Comment=Emacs Editor
MimeType=text/english;text/plain
Exec=emacsclient -create-frame --alternate-editor=""
Icon=emacs
Type=Application
Terminal=false
Categories=Development;TextEditor;Utility;
StartupWMClass=Emacs
```
